Add qubit experiments with qibosoq-lab-cal (#84)
qiboteam/qibosoq: doc/source/getting-started/qibosoq_lab_cal.rst

Qibosoq - Qibolab - Qibocal
===========================

In these examples, we will see how to perform some basic qubit calibration experiments using the three levels of abstraction provided by the Qibo ecosystem:

- Qibosoq: basic pulse level and direct RFSoC connection
- Qibolab: higher pulse level and integrated control of the complete setup
- Qibocal: experiment level

With these three packages, we perform the exact same experiments, showcasing how to implement the same program with different complexity levels.

> In particular, Qibosoq is the most base language and requires explicit definition of all the pulses, sweepers and experiment parameters. Qibolab is slightly more intuitive, but still requires to define all the experiment. Qibocal, on the other hand, leverages experiments already coded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In particular, Qibosoq is the lowest-level language and requires explicit definition of all the pulses, sweepers and experiment parameters. Qibolab is slightly more intuitive, but still requires to define all the experiment. Qibocal, on the other hand, leverages experiments already coded.
```

> In particular, Qibosoq is the most base language and requires explicit definition of all the pulses, sweepers and experiment parameters. Qibolab is slightly more intuitive, but still requires to define all the experiment. Qibocal, on the other hand, leverages experiments already coded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In particular, Qibosoq is the most base language and requires explicit definition of all the pulses, sweepers and experiment parameters. Qibolab is slightly more intuitive, but still requires to define the entire experiment. Qibocal, implements a set of these experiments, and gives the user chance to compose them.
```

Lines:

- Drive line DAC: 0
- Readout line DAC: 1
- Feedback line ADC: 0

Qubit parameters:

- Qubit frequency: 5_755_000_000 Hz
- Pi-pulse duration: 43 ns
- Pi-pulse amplitude: 0.02
- Pi-pulse shape: Gaussian(3)

Resonator parameters:

- Resonator frequency: 6_953_000_000 Hz
- Measurement duration: 1000 ns
- Measurement amplitude: 0.1
- Measurement shape: Rectangular()

Experiments parameters:

- Relaxation time: 50_000 ns

Preparation pre-experiments
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""

For all the control modes, we are supposing to have a Qibosoq server running on board.

Qibosoq
-------

For control through Qibosoq, no particular preparation is required.

In any case, for every experiment, we have to start the script with:

.. code-block:: python

  import json
  import socket
  import numpy as np
  import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

  from qibosoq.client import execute
  from qibosoq.components.base import (
      Qubit,
      OperationCode,
      Config
  )

  HOST = "192.168.0.200"
  PORT = 6000

Qibolab
-------

> For Qibolab, we first need to setup the platform. This includes writing the ``my_platform.py`` and the ``my_platform.yml`` files. For more detailed instructions to write these experiments, please refer to the Qibolab documentation [ADD LINK].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For Qibolab, we first need to setup the platform. This includes writing the ``my_platform.py`` and the ``my_platform.yml`` files.
For more detailed instructions to write these experiments, please refer to the `Qibolab documentation  <https://qibo.science/qibolab/stable/>`_ .
.
```

Qibosoq - Qibolab - Qibocal
===========================

In these examples, we will see how to perform some basic qubit calibration experiments using the three levels of abstraction provided by the Qibo ecosystem:

- Qibosoq: basic pulse level and direct RFSoC connection
- Qibolab: higher pulse level and integrated control of the complete setup

> - Qibocal: experiment level

Reviewer: From just this text is not fully clear that the sections below are doing the same thing in three different ways, since to an unexperienced reader it might seem like you need to operate in all the three of them at the same time.

I would just spend a few more words on the layout ("For each experiment we will show a parallel implementation of the same operation, resulting in the same (or very similar) plot", or any better wording you can think about, even integrated in the first sentence), and I would briefly describe what is being done in the code at the beginning of each experiment.

Preparation pre-experiments
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""

For all the control modes, we are suppossing to have a qibosoq server running on board.

Qibosoq
-------

For a control through Qibosoq, no particular preparation is required.

In any case, for every experiment, we have to start the script with:

.. code-block:: python

  import json
  import socket
  import numpy as np
  import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

  from qibosoq.client import execute
  from qibosoq.components.base import (
      Qubit,
      OperationCode,
      Config
  )

  HOST = "192.168.0.200"
  PORT = 6000

Qibolab
-------

> For Qibolab, we first need to setup the platform. This includes writing the ``platform.py`` and the ``platform.yml`` files. For more detailed instructions to write these experiments, please refer to the Qibolab documentation [ADD LINK].

Reviewer: I would replace `platform.py` with `my_platform.py` or `platform_name.py` (the underscore as you prefer), at least people will not infer that they have to call the file exactly `platform.py`.

Or otherwise just write it explicitly (that the name has to be always the same platform name, but which one is up to the user).

In this section we will provide a base platform that includes only a RFSoC4x2 board (with o additional instruments) that controls a single qubit.

The path of these two files will have to be exported in an enviroment variable with:

.. code-block:: bash

>   export QIBOLAB_PLATFORMS=<path-to-create-file>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  export QIBOLAB_PLATFORMS=<path-to-platform-files>
```

              readout_frequency: 7370000000
              drive_frequency: 5500000000
              anharmonicity: 0
              Ec: 0
              Ej: 0
              g: 0
              T1: 0.0
              T2: 0.0
              threshold: 0.0
              iq_angle: 0.0
              mean_gnd_states: [0.0, 0.0]
              mean_exc_states: [0.0, 0.0]

Every experiment, will then start with:

.. code-block:: python

  from qibolab import create_platform
  from qibolab import AcquisitionType, AveragingMode, ExecutionParameters

  from qibolab.pulses import (
      DrivePulse,
      ReadoutPulse,
      PulseSequence,
  )

  # Define platform and load specific runcard
  platform = create_platform("platform")

Qibocal
-------

For Qibocal, we first need to setup Qibolab as presented in the last section.
Note then that, for Qibocal "programs" we need a new file ``actions.yml`` that will contain all the parameters required for the experiments: this file will be presented for all the different experiments.
For Qibosoq and Qibolab "programs", a standard Python script or a Jupyter Notebook will suffice.

Time Of Flight
""""""""""""""

Qibosoq
-------

.. code-block:: python

>   from qibosoq.components.pulses import Rectangular

Reviewer: Even though you said it above in the preparation, it might be worth to repeat the setup over and over, to make the scripts (i.e. code blocks) self-contained (I'm pretty sure the average user will copy-paste, and then wonder why it is not working...).

  pulse = Rectangular(
            frequency = 7400, #MHz
            amplitude = 0.5,
            relative_phase = 0,
            start_delay = 0,
            duration = 1,
            name = "readout_pulse",
            type = "readout",
            dac = 1,
            adc = 0
  )

  sequence = [pulse]
  config = Config(
            repetition_duration=0.05,
            adc_trig_offset=0,
            reps=1,
            soft_avgs=1000,
            average=False
  )
  qubit = Qubit()

  server_commands = {
      "operation_code": OperationCode.EXECUTE_PULSE_SEQUENCE_RAW,
      "cfg": config,
      "sequence": sequence,
      "qubits": [qubit],
  }

  i, q = execute(server_commands, HOST, PORT)

  plt.plot(np.abs(np.array(i) + 1j * np.array(q))

Qibolab
-------

> .. code-block:: python

Reviewer: Same for Qibolab: it is fine to have it written above, but I would actually repeat it over and over.
